LAND COMBAT
Standard Action - You can perform one standard action on your turn. A standard action can be used to perform a move or swift action instead.
    Activate an Item - CRB, pg. 244
        Certain items need to be activated to have an effect. Unless otherwise noted, activating such an item is a standard action.

    Aid Another - CRB, pg. 133
        The GM might rule that you can help someone succeed at a skill check by performing the same action and attempting a skill check as part of a cooperative effort. At the GM’s discretion, only a limited number of creatures might be able to aid another.
        Attempt your skill check before the creature you want to help, against DC 10. If you succeed, that creature gains a +2 bonus to their check, as long as they attempt it before the end of their next turn.
    
    Attack - CRB, pg. 244-245
        Make a single attack. You can fight defensively as part of making an attack.
        Melee Attacks
            With a melee weapon, attack a target within your reach. Add your STR modifier to your melee attack rolls and your melee damage rolls.
        Ranged Attacks
            With a ranged weapon, attack a target within the weapon’s maximum range and in your line of effect. Add your DEX modifier to your ranged attack rolls, but not your ranged damage rolls.
            Range/Penalties
                An attack with a ranged weapon from a distance greater than its listed range increment takes a cumulative –2 penalty to the attack roll for each full or partial range increment of distance beyond the first.
                Unless otherwise stated, the maximum range for ranged weapons is 10 range increments, or 5 range increments for thrown weapons.
            Ranged Attacks With a Thrown Weapon
                With a thrown weapon or grenade, attack a target within the weapon’s maximum range and in your line of effect. Add your STR modifier to your ranged attack rolls, and to your damage rolls with weapons with the thrown special property. Do not add your STR modifier to damage rolls with grenades.
                If you miss on a ranged attack with a thrown weapon, the weapon lands in a random square or grid intersection as appropriate near your target. To determine where it lands, roll 1d8 and 1d4. The d8 determines the misdirection of the throw, with 1 falling short (off-target in a straight line toward the thrower), and 2 through 8 rotating around the target creature or grid intersection clockwise. The d4 determines how many squares away in that direction the weapon lands.
            Targeting a Grid Intersection
                When using a weapon with the explode special property or a thrown weapon that has an area effect, target a specific grid intersection on a tactical battle map, rather than a specific creature. Treat this as a ranged attack against AC 5.
            Critical Hits
                When you get a natural 20 on an attack roll, you hit regardless of your target’s AC. If the total result of your attack roll would hit the target anyway, the attack is a critical hit. On a critical hit, roll damage twice, each time with all your usual bonuses and including any additional damage from special abilities, then add the rolls together. Some weapons inflict a special effect on a target of a critical hit, in addition to dealing double damage.

    Cast a Spell - CRB, pg. 246
        Most spells require at least a standard action to cast. Spells that take more than a round to cast require a full action each round until they are complete.
        Casting While Threatened
            Casting a spell provokes attacks of opportunity, unless the spell specifies otherwise. If such an attack hits and damages you, you fail to cast the spell and lose the spell slot.

    Combat Manuever - Target an opponent within your reach and make a melee attack roll against their KAC + 8. On a hit, they suffer the appropriate effects.
        Bull Rush - CRB, pg. 246
            You knock the target back 5 feet, plus 5 additional feet for every 5 by which the result of your attack roll exceeds the target’s KAC + 8. If an obstacle is in the way, the target stops at the obstacle instead.
        
        Dirty Trick - CRB, pg. 246
            You make an unorthodox attack to briefly hinder the target. Your target is blinded, deafened, entangled, off-target, shaken, or sickened (your choice) for 1 round, plus 1 additional round for every 5 by which the result of your attack roll exceeds the target’s KAC + 8. The target can remove the condition as a move action.
            A dirty trick is normally a melee attack, but a GM can allow certain actions to count as dirty tricks at range, in which case you take a –2 penalty to your attack roll for every 5 feet between you and the target.

        Disarm - CRB, pg. 246
            You knock an item the target is holding out of the target’s hands and onto the ground. If you have a hand free, you can automatically grab the item with your hand before it falls.

        Grapple - CRB, pg. 246
            You hold the target in place. You must have at least one hand free to perform a grapple combat maneuver. Your target has the grappled condition until they either use a standard action to attempt a grapple combat maneuver to grapple you or use the escape task of the Acrobatics skill to break free.
            If the result of your attack roll equals or exceeds the target’s KAC + 13, the target is instead pinned for the same duration, and can’t take any actions that involve moving their limbs other than to attempt to escape.
            The grappled or pinned condition lasts until the end of your next turn (unless you renew it with another grapple combat maneuver), or until you move away. You can only grapple or pin one target at a time. As long as you have one target grappled or pinned, you cannot attempt to grapple another.
            When you renew a grapple, you can remove one item from the target’s body that can be easily accessed, including most weapons and equipment (but not worn armor). Doing so immediately ends the grapple.

        Reposition - CRB, pg. 246
            You change the target’s position to a different location still within your reach and within 5 feet of its original placement. You can move the target 5 additional feet for every 5 by which the result of your attack roll exceeds the target’s KAC + 8, but all movement must remain within your reach. You cannot move the target past an obstacle.
            If you reposition a creature as a full action, you can move a distance equal to the distance you repositioned your target (up to your move speed), dragging the target along with you.

        Sunder - CRB, pg. 246
            You deal damage to one object held in the target’s hand or accessible on its body. The object must be something that could be drawn easily by the target as a move action. The damage is reduced by an amount equal to the object’s hardness.

        Trip - CRB, pg. 246
            You knock the target prone if it is on the ground.
            A target in the air instead descends 10 feet, falling prone if this causes it to fall to the ground.
            A target in zero gravity is instead knocked off-kilter.

    Concentrate to Maintain a Spell - CRB, pg. 246
        Some spells require continued concentration to keep them going. Concentrating to maintain a spell is a standard action.

    Covering Fire - CRB, pg. 246
        Make a ranged attack roll against AC 15. If you hit, you deal no damage but the selected ally gains a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against the next attack from a creature in your line of effect, so long as that attack occurs before your next turn.

    Dismiss a Spell - CRB, pg. 246
        Dismiss an active spell.

    Feint - CRB, pg. 247
        Attempt a Bluff check. The DC check either 10 + your opponent’s Sense Motive total skill bonus or 15 + 1-1/2 × the opponent’s CR, whichever is greater. You can’t feint against a creature that lacks an INT score. When you successfully feint, you treat your opponent as flat-footed for your next attack against him before the end of your next turn.

    Fight Defensively - CRB, pg. 247
        As part of making an attack, take a –4 penalty to attacks and gain a +2 bonus to AC until the start of your next turn.

    Harrying Fire - CRB, pg. 247
        Choose a foe in your line of effect. Make a ranged attack roll against AC 15. If you hit, you deal no damage, but the next ally to attack that foe gains a +2 circumstance bonus to their next attack roll, as long as that attack occurs before your next turn.

    Ready an Action - CRB, pg. 249
        Decide on a standard, move, or swift action and a trigger. You can take the action you chose when the trigger happens.
        This changes your initiative count to the current initiative count for the remainder of the combat. If you used a reaction on your previous turn and then chose to ready an action, you still regain your reaction at the beginning of your original turn, not when you take your readied action.
        If purely defensive, the readied action occurs just before triggering event, otherwise it occurs immediately after the triggering event. If you come to your next turn and have not yet performed your readied action, it is lost.

    Total Defense - CRB, pg. 247
        Gain a +4 bonus to your Armor Class until the start of your next turn. You can’t combine total defense with other actions that increase your AC, nor can you make attacks of opportunity while benefiting from total defense.

    Use a Skill - CRB, pg. 249
        Using a skill in combat usually requires taking an action. The action required when using a skill depends on the skill and the specific task you’re trying to accomplish. Common tasks requiring a standard action are detailed here.
        Escape (Acrobatics) - CRB, pg. 135
            Make an Acrobatics check against DC 10 + grappler's KAC to escape from grapples or pins. On a success, you free yourself from the grapple or pin and no longer have the grappled or pinned condition.
    
    Use a Special Ability - CRB, pg. 247
        Using a special ability is usually a standard action, unless it is an ongoing ability or the ability says otherwise. In rare cases, an ability might take a full action or a move action to activate. In most cases, a use-activated special ability cannot be activated as a swift action. Using a spell-like ability typically provokes attacks of opportunity unless stated otherwise.

Move Action - You can perform one move action on your turn. A move action can be used to perform a swift action instead.
    Aid Another - CRB, pg. 133
        The GM might rule that you can help someone succeed at a skill check by performing the same action and attempting a skill check as part of a cooperative effort. At the GM’s discretion, only a limited number of creatures might be able to aid another.
        Attempt your skill check before the creature you want to help, against DC 10. If you succeed, that creature gains a +2 bonus to their check, as long as they attempt it before the end of their next turn.
    
    Crawl - CRB, pg. 247
        Crawl 5 feet. A crawling character is considered prone.

    Direct or Redirect an Effect - CRB, pg. 247
        Some technology and spells allow you to redirect an effect to new targets or areas. Redirecting requires a move action unless the technology or spell states otherwise.

    Draw or Sheathe a Weapon - CRB, pg. 247
        Draw a weapon so that you can use it in combat or put it away so that you have a free hand. This action includes activating or deactivating the weapon. This also applies to weapon-like objects that are easily accessible, such as remote controls and most tools or sensors you can carry and use with one hand. If your weapon or weapon-like object is stored in a pack or otherwise out of easy reach, you must instead retrieve it as a stored item before you can use it (see Manipulate an Item).
        If your base attack bonus is at least +1, you can combine drawing or sheathing a weapon or weapon-like object with moving up to your speed as a single move action.

    Guarded Step - CRB, pg. 247
        Carefully step 5 feet. This movement doesn’t provoke attacks of opportunity.

    Manipulate an Item - CRB, pg. 247
        Move or manipulate an item, including retrieving or putting away a stored item, picking up an item, moving a heavy object, and opening a door.

    Move Your Speed - CRB, pg. 247
        Move up to your speed. Many nonstandard modes of movement are also covered under this action, including burrowing (using your natural burrow speed, if you have one), climbing and swimming (using either the Athletics skill or your natural climb or swim speed, if you have one), or flying (using the Acrobatics skill if you have either access to flight or a natural fly speed). Some full actions (such as the operative’s trick attack) allow you to move as well, which act as moving up to your speed.
        If your base attack bonus is at least +1, you can combine drawing or sheathing a weapon or weapon-like object with moving up to your speed as a single move action.

    Reload - CRB, pg. 247
        Reload most weapons, including grabbing ammunition you have readily available. Some weapons require different actions to reload; see the weapon’s description.

    Stand Up - CRB, pg. 247
        Stand up from a prone position.
    
    Use a Skill - CRB, pg. 249
        Using a skill in combat usually requires taking an action. The action required when using a skill depends on the skill and the specific task you’re trying to accomplish. Common tasks requiring a move action are detailed here.
        Balance (Acrobatics) - CRB, pg. 135
            As part of a move action, make an Acrobatics check to move across narrow surfaces and uneven ground without falling. A successful check allows you to move at half your land speed across such a surface. While balancing, you are flat-footed. If you fail the Acrobatics check to begin moving across a narrow surface or uneven ground, your move action ends at the point just before you’d need to begin balancing. If you fail the check while already balancing (having succeeded on a previous turn), you fall prone and the GM may rule that you start falling, depending on the type of surface you are moving across.
            If you take damage while balancing, you must immediately attempt an Acrobatics check at the initial DC. On a success, you remain balancing (and can continue to move if it is your turn). If you fail, you fall prone and, depending on the type of surface you are balancing upon, the GM can rule that you start falling.
            The DCs for Acrobatics checks to balance are based on the width of the surface you are traversing, but can also be adjusted based on environmental circumstances such as slope and surface conditions. Such modifiers are cumulative; use all that apply.
            Surface Width	            DC
            Greater than 3 feet wide*	0
            3–1 feet wide*	            5
            11–7 inches wide	        10
            6–2 inches wide             15
            Less than 2 inches wide	    20
            * No Acrobatics check is needed to move across these surfaces unless a DC modifier (see the table below) increases the DC to 10 or higher.
            Circumstance	                            DC Modifier
            Slightly obstructed (gravel, sand)	        +2
            Severely obstructed (cavern, rubble)	    +5
            Slightly slippery (wet)	                    +2
            Severely slippery (icy)	                    +5
            Slightly sloped (<45 degrees)	            +2
            Severely sloped (>45 degrees)	            +5
            Slightly unsteady (rough spaceflight)	    +2
            Moderately unsteady (jostled spacecraft)	+5
            Severely unsteady (earthquake)	            +10
        Fly (Acrobatics) - CRB, pg. 135-136
            Make an Acrobatics check against the appropriate DC on the chart below to complete one of the following tasks.
            Fly in Dangerous Wind Conditions - CRB, pg. 135
                In conditions of windstorm or higher (see chart below), you must make an Acrobatics check to stay aloft each time you move (part of the move action). If you fail this check, you cannot move. If you fail this check by 5 or more, you are blown 2d6 × 10 feet in the direction of the prevailing wind (or in a direction decided by the GM), and take 2d6 bludgeoning damage.
            Hover - CRB, pg. 135-136
                Make an Acrobatics check to hover while flying. If you fail, you fall. If you have clumsy maneuverability, you can’t hover at all. If you have average maneuverability and at least 5 ranks in Acrobatics or if you have perfect maneuverability, you can hover automatically without attempting a check and it doesn't require a move action.
            Wind Conditions*                DC
            Light to moderate (0–20 mph)	15
            Strong (21–30 mph)	            17
            Severe (31–50 mph)	            19
            Windstorm (51–74 mph)	        27
            Hurricane force (75–174 mph)	33
            Tornado force (175+ mph)	    39
            * The DC increases by as much as 5 for choppy wind or airborne debris, or 10 for both.

            [RESUME HERE]
            https://www.aonsrd.com/Rules.aspx?ID=93
            https://www.aonsrd.com/Skills.aspx?ItemName=Acrobatics
            https://thehiddentruth.info/rules/tactical/actions
            https://anyflip.com/uwvkk/ynio
            https://tyoung-99.github.io/starfinder-quickref/preview/quickref.html
    
    Use a Special Ability - CRB, pg. 247
        Using a special ability is usually a standard action, unless it is an ongoing ability or the ability says otherwise. In rare cases, an ability might take a full action or a move action to activate. In most cases, a use-activated special ability cannot be activated as a swift action. Using a spell-like ability typically provokes attacks of opportunity unless stated otherwise.

Swift Action - You can perform one swift action on your turn.
    Aid Another - CRB, pg. 133
        The GM might rule that you can help someone succeed at a skill check by performing the same action and attempting a skill check as part of a cooperative effort. At the GM’s discretion, only a limited number of creatures might be able to aid another.
        Attempt your skill check before the creature you want to help, against DC 10. If you succeed, that creature gains a +2 bonus to their check, as long as they attempt it before the end of their next turn.
    
    Change Grips - CRB, pg. 247
        Change your grip on a weapon, such as going from wielding a two-handed weapon with both hands to holding it in one hand.

    Drop Prone - CRB, pg. 247
        Drop to a prone position in your space.

    Use a Skill - CRB, pg. 249
        Using a skill in combat usually requires taking an action. The action required when using a skill depends on the skill and the specific task you’re trying to accomplish. Common tasks requiring a swift action are detailed here.

Full Action - A full action requires your entire turn to complete. You can't take your usual standard, move, and swift actions.
    Aid Another - CRB, pg. 133
        The GM might rule that you can help someone succeed at a skill check by performing the same action and attempting a skill check as part of a cooperative effort. At the GM’s discretion, only a limited number of creatures might be able to aid another.
        Attempt your skill check before the creature you want to help, against DC 10. If you succeed, that creature gains a +2 bonus to their check, as long as they attempt it before the end of their next turn.
    
    Charge - CRB, pg. 248
        Move up to double your speed in a straight line directly toward your target. You must move at least 10 feet. You must have a clear path, and you must move to the space closest to your starting square from which you can attack the opponent. If this space is occupied or blocked, you can’t charge. If any line from your starting space to the ending space passes through a square that blocks movement, slows movement (such as difficult terrain), or contains a creature (even an ally), you can’t charge. You can still move through helpless creatures during a charge. If you don’t have line of sight to the opponent at the start of your turn, you can’t charge that opponent.
        After moving, you can make a single melee attack. You take a –2 penalty to the attack roll and a –2 penalty to your AC until the start of your next turn. You can’t move any farther after the attack.
        You can draw a weapon during a charge attack if your base attack bonus is at least +1.

    Coup de Grace - CRB, pg. 248
        Deliver a special attack to an adjacent helpless opponent. You automatically hit and score a critical hit. If the target survives the damage, they must succeed at a FORT saving throw (DC = 10 + your level or CR) or die. If the target is immune to critical hits, the coup de grace does not deal critical damage or effects, nor does it force the target to succeed at a saving throw or die.

    Fight Defensively - CRB, pg. 248
        As part of making a full attack, take a –4 penalty to all attacks in that round (in addition to the normal penalties for making a full attack) and gain a +2 bonus to AC until the start of your next turn.

    Full Attack - CRB, pg. 248
        Make two attacks, each with a –4 penalty to the attack rolls. These attacks can be made with the same weapon or different weapons, though weapons with the unwieldy special property can't be used more than once per round.
        Certain weapons have special individualized full attacks.
        You can fight defensively as part of making a full attack.

    Reposition - CRB, pg. 246
        You move 5 feet, plus another 5 feet for every 5 by which the result of your attack roll exceeds the target’s KAC + 8, dragging the target along with you. You cannot move the target past an obstacle.
        If you reposition a creature as a standard action, you can only move the target, not yourself, and all movement must remain within your reach.

    Run - CRB, pg. 248
        Move up to four times your speed in a straight line. You gain the flat-footed condition, and you can’t run if you must cross difficult terrain or can’t see where you’re going. Running provokes attacks of opportunity. You can run for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution score.

    Use a Skill - CRB, pg. 249
        Using a skill in combat usually requires taking an action. The action required when using a skill depends on the skill and the specific task you’re trying to accomplish. Common tasks requiring a full action are detailed here.
    
    Use a Special Ability - CRB, pg. 247
        Using a special ability is usually a standard action, unless it is an ongoing ability or the ability says otherwise. In rare cases, an ability might take a full action or a move action to activate. In most cases, a use-activated special ability cannot be activated as a swift action. Using a spell-like ability typically provokes attacks of opportunity unless stated otherwise.

    Withdraw - CRB, pg. 248
        Move up to double your speed. The square you start out in is not considered threatened by any opponent you can see (other squares still are), and therefore doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity from them. You can’t withdraw if you’re blinded and have no other precise senses (such as blindsight).

Reaction - A special action you can take after a specific trigger, even if it's not your turn. You can perform one reaction per round, and regain it at the start of your turn. Unless stated otherwise, if purely defensive, the reaction interrupts the triggering action, otherwise it occurs immediately after the triggering action.
    Attack of Opportunity - CRB, pg. 248-249
        When any of the following criteria are met, make a melee attack against the given opponent.
            The opponent in a space you threaten moves or is moved out of that space in any way other than a guarded step or withdraw action.
            The opponent in a space you threaten makes a ranged attack.
            The opponent in a space you threaten casts a spell or uses a spell-like ability, unless the spell or spell-like ability states in its description that it doesn't provoke attacks of opportunity
        Attacks of opportunity are always resolved before the action that triggers them. You don’t take a penalty to the attack roll when making an attack of opportunity in the same round you took a full attack, but you do take any other attack penalties that would normally apply to your attacks. Making an attack of opportunity does not affect your ability to make attacks normally when it is your turn.

    Use a Skill - CRB, pg. 249
        Using a skill in combat usually requires taking an action. The action required when using a skill depends on the skill and the specific task you’re trying to accomplish. Common tasks requiring a reaction are detailed here.
        Fly (Acrobatics) - CRB, pg. 135-136
            Make an Acrobatics check against the appropriate DC on the chart below to complete one of the following tasks.
            Avoid Falling Damage - CRB, pg. 135
                If you are falling and can fly, you can attempt to negate the damage from the fall. If you fail, you fall normally. If you have perfect maneuverability, you can avoid falling damage automatically without attempting a check.
                Wind Conditions*                DC
                Light to moderate (0–20 mph)	15
                Strong (21–30 mph)	            17
                Severe (31–50 mph)	            19
                Windstorm (51–74 mph)	        27
                Hurricane force (75–174 mph)	33
                Tornado force (175+ mph)	    39
                * The DC increases by as much as 5 for choppy wind or airborne debris, or 10 for both.

Non-Actions - These don't require any action to perform.
    Combat Banter - CRB, pg. 249
        While actually trying to convince someone using a skill takes actions, banter and quips are allowed outside initiative order. You can speak an amount that makes sense, at the GM’s discretion, even if it isn’t your turn.

    Delay - CRB, pg. 249
        Delay taking your turn until other characters have taken their turns. You must declare that you are delaying before taking any actions on your turn. After any creature takes its turn in the initiative order, you can come out of delay and take your turn. This changes your initiative count to the current initiative count for the remainder of the combat. If you used a reaction on your previous turn and then chose to delay, you still regain your reaction at the beginning of your original turn, not when you take your delayed actions.

    Drop an Item - CRB, pg. 249
        Drop any item or items that you’re holding into your square or an adjacent square at any time.

Conditions


ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS


VEHICLE CHASES


STARSHIP COMBAT


